Add full documentation (#582)
vtex-apps/render-runtime: docs/README.md

# Render Runtime

This app handles runtime execution of React apps in the VTEX IO Platform and exports some helpful React components, React hooks and variable.

<!-- @import "[TOC]" {cmd="toc" depthFrom=2 depthTo=2 orderedList=false} -->

<!-- code_chunk_output -->

- [`useRuntime`](#useruntime)
- [Block (alias ExtensionPoint)](#block-alias-extensionpoint)
- [canUseDOM](#canusedom)
- [Helmet](#helmet)
- [Link](#link)
- [NoSSR](#nossr)

<!-- /code_chunk_output -->

## useRuntime

> A React hook that provides some functions and variables that are useful when creating components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React hook that provides runtime contextual variables and methods to help creating components.
```

# Render Runtime

> This app handles runtime execution of React apps in the VTEX IO Platform and exports some helpful React components, React hooks and variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This app handles runtime execution of React apps in the VTEX IO Platform and exports some helpful React components hooks and variables.
```

> > **Tip:** run `vtex setup --typings` to add vtex.render-runtime types in your app. This will provide autocomplete features in VSCode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Tip:** run `vtex setup --typings` to add `vtex.render-runtime` types in your app. IDEs can use them to provide autocomplete for variables and methods.
```

}
```

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { deviceInfo } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `getSettings`

A _function_ that get the public settings of an app.

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { getSettings } = useRuntime()
  const settings = getSettings('vtex.store')

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `hints`

An _object_ with information about the user device, whether it's mobile, desktop or tablet based on the information provided by the CDN. Different from `deviceInfo` this data is static.

**Example value:**
```json
{
  "desktop": true,
  "mobile": false,
  "tablet": false,
  "phone": false,
  "unknown": false,
}
```

**Type:**
```tsx
interface Hints {
  desktop: boolean
  mobile: boolean
  tablet: boolean
  phone: boolean
  unknown: boolean
}
```

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { hints } = useRuntime()

>   return <div>Hello</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return <div>This {hints.desktop ? 'is' : 'is not'} a desktop</div>
```

import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { history } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `navigate`

A _function_ that must be used to make a client-side navigation.

**Function param:**

```tsx
interface NavigateOptions {
  fallbackToWindowLocation?: boolean
  hash?: string
  page?: string
  params?: any
  query?: any
  replace?: boolean
  rootPath?: string
  scrollOptions?: false | {
    baseElementId: string,
    behavior: 'auto' | 'smooth'
    left: number
    top: number
  }
  skipSetPath?: boolean
  to?: string
}
```

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { navigate } = useRuntime()

  const handleClick = () => {
    navigate({
      to: '/other-page'
    })
  }

  return <button onClick={handleClick}>Go</button>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `page`

A _string_ value of the current page id.

**Example value:**
`"store.home"`

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { page } = useRuntime()

>   return <div>Hello</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return <div>This is the current page id: {page}</div>
```

}

export default MyComponent
```

### `production`

A _boolean_ value representing whether the app is in a production workspace or not.

**Example value:**
`false`

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { production } = useRuntime()

>   return <div>Hello</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return <div>This {production ? 'is' : 'is not'} a production workspace</div>
```

}

export default MyComponent
```

### `query`

An _object_ that stores the query string values in a key-value format.

**Example value:**
`{ "foo": "bar" }`

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { query } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `renderMajor`

A _number_ with the major version of Render Runtime.

**Example value:**
`8`

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { renderMajor } = useRuntime()

>   return <div>Hello</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return <div>This page is rendered using vtex.render-runtime@{renderMajor}.x</div>
```

}

export default MyComponent
```

### `rootPath`

A _string_ with the root path of the store. It can be `undefined` if none is set.

**Example value:**
`/ar`

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { rootPath } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>

> }

Reviewer 2: Could not think of a good example here, but we should also use the `rootPath` variable in some way here.

export default MyComponent
```

### `setQuery`

A _function_ that can be called to set query string params.

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { setQuery } = useRuntime()

  const handleClick = () => {
    setQuery({ foo: 'bar' })
  }

  return <button>Set</button>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `workspace`

A _string_ with the current workspace name.

**Example value:**
`master`

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { workspace } = useRuntime()

>   return <div>Hello</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return <div>This is the {workspace} workspace</div>
```

}

export default MyComponent
```

## Block (alias ExtensionPoint)

> A React component that is used to create Store Framework blocks that expects a specific block id.

Reviewer 2: We could add a disclaimer here, telling people that they should use `Block` or `ExtensionPoint` if they expect to receive blocks via the `blocks` array.

  isMobile: boolean
  type: 'phone' | 'tablet' | 'desktop' | 'unknown'
}
```

**Example value:**
```json
{
  "isMobile": false,
  "type": "desktop"
}
```

### `getSettings`

A _function_ that get the public settings of an app.

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { getSettings } = useRuntime()
  const settings = getSettings('vtex.store')

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `hints`

An _object_ with information about the user device, whether it's mobile, desktop or tablet based on the information provided by the CDN. Different from `deviceInfo` this data is static.

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { hints } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

**Type:**
```tsx
interface Hints {
  desktop: boolean
  mobile: boolean
  tablet: boolean
  phone: boolean
  unknown: boolean
}
```

**Example value:**
```json
{
  "desktop": true,
  "mobile": false,
  "tablet": false,
  "phone": false,
  "unknown": false,
}
```

### `history`

> A `history` object reexported from history package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `history` object reexported from the `history` package. 
```

Docs at: https://github.com/ReactTraining/history/tree/v4/docs

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { history } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `navigate`

> A _function_ that should be use to make a client-side navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _function_ that must be used to make a client-side navigation.
```

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { navigate } = useRuntime()

  const handleClick = () => {
    navigate({
      to: '/other-page'
    })
  }

  return <button onClick={handleClick}>Go</button>
}

export default MyComponent
```

**Params:**

```tsx
interface NavigateOptions {
  fallbackToWindowLocation?: boolean
  hash?: string
  page?: string
  params?: any
  query?: any
  replace?: boolean
  rootPath?: string
  scrollOptions?: false | {
    baseElementId: string,
    behavior: 'auto' | 'smooth'
    left: number
    top: number
  }
  skipSetPath?: boolean
  to?: string
}
```

### `page`

> A _string_ value of the current page.

Reviewer: Representing what? The URL?

Author: Good point!

**Usage:**
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { useRuntime } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const { page } = useRuntime()

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

**Example value:**
`"store.home"`

### `production`

> A _boolean_ value whether is in a production workspace or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _boolean_ value representing whether the app is in a production workspace or not.
```

// or
// import { ExtensionPoint } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <div>
      Foobar
      <Block id="my-other-block" />
      {/* or <ExtensionPoint id="my-other-block" /> */}
    </div>
  )
}

export default MyComponent
```

## canUseDOM

A _boolean_ whether the code is running in a browser environment (`true`) or Node/SSR environment (`false`). It may be useful for components that use DOM related data _(e.g: `document` or `window`)_.

```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { canUseDOM } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  const data = canUseDOM
    ? window.localStorage.getItem('foo')
    : ''

  return <div>Hello</div>
}

export default MyComponent
```

## Helmet

Useful to add HTML tags inside the `<head>` tag of the page.

Reexport of the `Helmet` component from the `react-helmet` library.
Docs: https://github.com/nfl/react-helmet/tree/release/5.2.0

```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { Helmet } from 'vtex.render-runtime'

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <>
      <Helmet>
        <meta property="og:type" content="article" />
      </Helmet>
    </>
  )
}

export default MyComponent
```

## Link

> A React component that renders an `a` HTML element that, when clicked, navigates the user to the provided route. It has a similar API with the `navigate` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React component that renders an `a` HTML element that, when clicked, navigates the user to the provided route. It has a similar API to the `navigate` method.
```
